Introduction
Britech Limited is incorporated in Kenya and has been operational since 2000.  It works closely in association with African Consulting Engineering Services Limited of the U.K. which was incorporated in 1981. The companies were formed by the Chairman and Chief Engineer of a group of Consulting Engineering firms which have been operational throughout East Africa since 1967.  The company undertakes Geotechnical, Building, Structural and Civil Engineering projects which include all of the engineering works through design and project implementation for building schemes, factories, industrial developments, mobile phone and electricity transmission towers, hospitals, housing estates and agricultural enterprises. Site Investigations, Materials Surveys, Design and Quality Control Testing for Civil, Structural and Building Engineering Projects in the region are undertaken by the consultancy from our Nairobi Head Office. The consultancies maintain a Central Geotechnical Testing Laboratory in Nairobi which is permanently staffed by more than thirty Professional Engineers and Technicians. It is fully equipped and capable of undertaking all the main classes of soils and materials testing for specification compliance and foundation engineering.  The company has an uninterrupted power supply, computerized reporting facilities and the latest computer aided design capability. Structural and Building Engineering
The consultancy specializes in all aspects of structural and building engineering from conceptual analysis, through feasibility studies to design and construction supervision.
The projects undertaken include, offices, embassy buildings, hotels, apartment buildings, hospitals and clinics, schools, factories, telephone and electricity transmission towers, greenhouses, coldstores, packing halls, and housing constructed of reinforced concrete, structural steelwork, timber and a variety of other building materials. Civil Engineering
The consultancy specializes in all aspects of civil engineering from conceptual analysis, through feasibility studies to design and construction supervision.
The projects undertaken include, highways, airports, infrastructural works, agricultural engineering, water supplies, sewerage reticulation and treatment, and surface water drainage for a large variety of projects in the public and private sectors of the economy. Geotechnical and Materials Testing
The consultancy principals and senior technical staff are experts in geotechnical investigations, laboratory testing, foundation engineering, design and construction. Topographical Surveying
Survey teams undertake topographical and engineering surveys for Buildings, Highways and Public Health Engineering Projects, and Site Surveys for Industrial, Agricultural, Housing and Institutional Developments. Office and Laboratory
The Britech Head Office and Laboratory are located in Nairobi and are operational every weekday and at weekends as necessary.
The laboratory was established in 1981 and has a staff comprising of Registered Engineers, Graduate Engineers and highly experienced Technicians with many years experience in site investigation and materials testing. The testing of materials is carried out in accordance with the relevant Kenyan, British, American and International Standards as is concrete and bituminous mix design.
In Britech the test results are computer processed assuring Clients of reliable and timely delivery by fax or e-mail if required. Contract Law and Arbitration
Britech employs senior staff qualified in contract Law Arbitration, Adjudication and Mediation. Clients
A list of Britech’s Clients would be exhaustive but they come from all sectors of the construction industry in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and Ethiopia including, Kenya Government Agencies, Foreign Government Agencies particularly the British, Canadian, Chinese, Dutch and Australian, Consulting Engineers, Contractors, Private Developers and Architects Examples of Recent Projects
We present below an abridged list of projects undertaken by the consultancies in recent years.